please welcome John summers quick time
Java engineering thank you and welcome
to session 507 quick time for Java now
today we're going to be taking you
through some of the new features in
quick time for Java specifically those
that support QuickTime 5 features but
before we do that I want to move on to
show you basically the QuickTime for
Java is built of two major components
QuickTime which is Apple's
proprietary media architecture it's
mature cross-platform flexible as a rich
set of services which support industry
standard media formats such as dynamic
media that is audio and video and a
wealth of still image importers and
exporters and also interactive media
such as QuickTime VR and wired sprites
Java from Sun Microsystems is a modern
object-oriented interpreted language you
can deploy Java cross-platform as
standalone applications java
applications and applets so that briefly
is the basis of cook time for java this
is what it's built on now the actual
implementation of QuickTime for Java
QuickTime for Java is a cross-platform
Java class library
accessing the native QuickTime C
libraries it has a core layer which is
an object model that represents the
QuickTime C API this is represented as a
set of Java classes which have been
grouped into logical packages also
QuickTime for Java has a sophisticated
application framework of obstructed
media services to simplify the
integration of QuickTime and Java
quick time for Java delivers on the
promise of Java in that it has an
identical API across all supported
platforms and operating systems you can
write Java applications which use
QuickTime for Java on any of the
supported applications and deliver that
jar to to run on all the supported
platforms so in brief QuickTime Java
architecture relies on core services
from QuickTime from Java and from the
operating system
QuickTime for Java 5 which is the
version of QuickTime for Java shipping
in Apple's current version of QuickTime
that is QuickTime version 5 supports a
new brand-new operating system Mac OS 10
with apple's implementation of java 2
standard edition as well quicktime for
Java 5 continue to support classic Mac
OS with Macintosh runtime for Java 2.1
and above and this is based on Java
development kit one one eight QuickTime
for Java five also continues to support
and has enhanced support for Microsoft
operating systems the windows 95 98 ME
family and Windows NT and 2000 family
operating systems and require to have
installed a Sun compliant jump Java
Runtime Edition 1.1 and also will run
with Java to QuickTime for Java 5 has
specific enhancements for this new and
new Java 2 environment there are
improvements to the Java 2 security
model and I believe there is a session
tomorrow if you're interested in Java
security specific enhancements in
QuickTime for Java have been changes due
to
issues with garbage collection with the
hot spot clock Impala
so quick time for Java five has new
support for the new features in
QuickTime 5 some of the new features in
QuickTime 5 is the XML package ton for
Java has an XML parser package which
allows you access and we'll talk about
this later and QuickTime 5 also has a
new broadcast API and QuickTime for Java
5 supports quick times broadcast API
with the presentation package and
Michael will give you a demonstration of
that this afternoon as well time for
Java 5 has full coverage of the
QuickTime for API all of the QuickTime
functionality up to and including
QuickTime 5 are available through
QuickTime for Java as well this release
of QuickTime for Java 5 has additional
functionality and enhanced services now
I'd like to go on to to a key piece of
multimedia presentations which is
time-based multimedia presentations we
can think of a movie time base as having
two particular
has a rate which is the rate at which
the time base is moving and also a
current time which is that for a movie
time base it's the place in time where
the playhead is quick time for Java
implements time-based callbacks so that
you can receive notification in your
quick time your quick time for java
application that is a an application
written in java and utilizing quicktime
for java you can get receive
notification of time-based events as you
can see from the diagram when the
playhead reaches a certain time in the
movie you can execute your own java code
now what are these time-based events
they can execute at a certain time that
is at a certain time within the movie at
intervals you may want to have a ticker
in the movie so that you get notified
every second or and also you can have
callbacks which fire at extremes so you
can find get notification that your
movie has finished and you can also have
callbacks for notification of rate
change that is when the movie starts
when the movie stops
now when a movie starts playing the rate
change goes from zero a rate change of
zero means the movies not playing to a
rate change of 1 means the movie is
moving forward at normals at normal play
rate to play the movie backwards you
would change the right to minus 1 now
the reason why I'm going on about time
bases is that because they've been
reworked in QuickTime for Java 5 they
are now much more efficient they have
they are now implemented using high
priority of native threads for
efficiency they deliver your Java code
executing very close to the time that
the callback was actually fired also
this this rework means that it could
QuickTime callbacks now have an implicit
borrowing mechanism you no longer have
to have a time at asking thread polling
for when these events occur so now I'd
like to move on to the demo to actually
show you
QuickTime callbacks
here we have on 10 a java application
written which use a lot which utilizes
quick time for java specifically this
application has been written to have a
number of callbacks the first callback
I'll demonstrate is time-jumping as you
can see in the console we can find out
where the movie where the user scrubs
the controller to now we will start the
movie and you will notice that we have a
rate callback change I'll just stop the
movie a rate callback change a rate
change callback so the rate goes to 1
that is the movies playing also we have
a ticker that is a time a time callback
which is being called every second now
because of the reworked time-based
implementation
you'll see the accuracy we can't measure
that the latency of the top from the
time that the callback is actually
called to the time that your Java code
executes we can't measure it on 10 so
we'll restart the movie and as you can
see you have time base callback being
called once a second just out of
interest this is a says a timescale
about 20 million years per second this
is a flaw dynamic simulation of the
collision of two galaxies and if we stop
the movie right goes to zero start the
movie again
now the movie has stopped and two events
have occurred we have an extreme score
back to say that the movie has reached
the end of the time-base we also have
another rate callback a rate callback so
the movie has stopped the rate has gone
to zero
and I think we'll go back to slides now
to explain this
oops excuse me some advice some advice
for actually using time-based callbacks
is that time-based callbacks require
explicit cleanup that is on exit you
must call counsel and clean up counsel
will cancel the callback and clean up
will remove system resources in use if
you want to stop or just reschedule the
callback use canceled use the cancel
method of time base class for more
sophisticated timing services you should
really look at the application framework
where there are some very nice classes
such as the timer class and its target
client ticklish objects and also if you
want to make a presentation which has
different elements which are time slow
that is the rate of one object will
control the rate of all the other media
objects within that presentation then
the application framework has some very
nice services for time slaving now I'd
like to introduce a new feature and an
enhancement of the QuickTime VR instance
methods in QuickTime Java 5 specifically
we are supporting the interaction
properties of QuickTime vr5 these new
interaction properties deal with
panorama mouse click properties this is
the time from when the time or the
number of pixels moved before the mouse
click gesture becomes an ordinary
panning gesture that is the mouse click
will timeout also speed of angle change
properties this is a multiplier factor
for the pan and tilt you'll see you'll
see this quite well in the demo that
basically if you if the user is panning
across he's using the mouse to pan
across a panorama and you change the pan
tilt speed
the panorama will speed up or slow down
similarly for VR objects you have a
mouse motion scale which allows you to
change the number of pixels the user
must move the mouse in order to either
rotate to rotate the object and also we
have a getter and setter for zoom speed
you can change the zoom speed which is
the zoom in on the z axis for quick time
vr objects have two modes they have a
rotation or translation that is normally
you can rotate a VR object or you can
put it into translation mode so that if
it zoomed in see the user interaction
will be to move the stet single image
rather than rotating the object and in
quick time quick time for Java we give
you access to the two the two properties
translate onmousedown which allows you
to change the translate or rotate
property the property to either rotate
or translate or the nudge mode and this
is similar to the mouse down mode except
it works with the arrow keys and there
we have three States rotate translate or
the same as the translate our mouse down
now I'd like to show you a demonstration
over QuickTime VR with these properties
now here we have a quicktime BR and well
first of all the the java application
has printed out some information first
of all we've installed an intercept
Proc now we've been able to do this with
QuickTime for Java 4 and this is one of
the powerful things about QuickTime for
Java it's very easy to create great
dynamic functionality within a
presentation of they are we've also have
another callback which is the mouse over
proc and this is basically the one we
will be setting getting and setting and
checking some of these new properties
now the pan tilt speed that is the
factor that multiplies the users
interaction with the panorama is when we
come into the panorama is set to 5 which
is the default and just for reference
the field of view is almost 40 degrees
when we enter a hotspot as you can see
Michael has entered a hot spot before
that the speed would go up to 8 so that
if we pan slowly towards this hot spot
when it enters the hot spot I'll have a
notification and we'll increase the
speed and when we leave the hot spot it
will slow back down again the field of
view has not been changed I'll go back
in because I also have another more
functionality in this demonstration that
when we click we zoom in and when we
leave the hot spot it reverts to normal
so here we have a hot spot this topped
hot spot number 74 where if we entered
and if we entered the hot spot with
while panning the speed would increase
again so we'll do that as we enter the
hot spot we go past it quite quickly now
the mouse hysteresis and the property
I'll just demonstrate that so basically
I'm going to click in this hot spot and
we have a time out of 30 ticks half a
second we can change that property I
haven't done this in this particular
demonstration
so here we have another hot spot and
this one will be a very slow hot spot so
we'll pan into it quite quickly and the
user experience is that over their
particular hot spot that's an important
hot spot you've slowed down
okay can we return to slides please
now this sort of functionality is very
easy to achieve a QuickTime VR with
QuickTime for Java I have some
demonstration some of the source code
this is very simple source code
basically we create a qtvr instance
using the movie controller and getting
the qtvr track from the movie then we
set the mouse over prop and the execute
function which is a which is an override
of the qtvr
mouse over hotspot implementation has
two actions basically it looks at the
action selector coming in and when we
enter a hotspot we set the pan tilt
speed to some function of the hotspot ID
this is a very quick demo else when we
leave the hotspot we reset the pan tilt
speed to normal
now I'd like to move on and let Michael
tell you about the improved support for
the sound manager thank you John I love
having the clicker okay today we're
going to talk about some of the new
sound manager support in QuickTime for
Java 5 this has been greatly enhanced
from our previous release to include the
additional support of asynchronous
recording and playback we've also
provided the functionality of being able
to access the equalizer for the sound
channel so you can get get the values of
the treble and bass equalizers and also
you can play with level metering turn
that on and off get the status of that
now keep in mind that this is the
classic sound manager support that is
built into QuickTime it's not the same
as the core Audio API which is native in
Mac OS 10 there are some other sessions
later on in the show
it will in fact there's some today and a
few tomorrow on that and that API is
accessible from Java however since it's
10 only we recommend that if you do need
to do cross-platform sound development
the e is our sound manager support in
QuickTime and since we've added a whole
lot of new functionality which makes it
really nice to use so what have we done
in the new sound manager we've added an
extended scheduled sound header class
this allows you to send buffered sound
commands
we've also added an SC Status class and
with that you can get the status of the
sound channel you can determine whether
it's busy whether there's a sound
playing and and other operations we also
have an si completion class that enables
you to register a completion routine
that will be a get called upon
completion of asynchronous recording so
that your application can be notified
when recording is complete and then save
that sound somewhere or play it back to
the user and finally we've added some
additional constants in the sound
constants class to expose some of those
new constants that weren't previously
available and these include things like
new sound commands as we're going to
talk about in the next slide so how do
you use the new sound manager
and what else have we done we've
enhanced the sound channel class
significantly to provide support for du
command and also do immediate the do
command when you call that places the
sound command such as a callback command
or a buffer command or a playback
command into the command queue and
execute that command immediately we're
that's the do immediate call whereas the
do command will place that command into
the queue of commands to be executed by
the sound channel and when the sound
channel is executed all its prior cued
commands and we'll go ahead and execute
that one as well so the primary
difference between doing media is that
it skips that that cue reverses du
command which places the command at the
end of the queue we also have support
for a new callback command which we'll
talk about in detail later which enables
you to to get a callback when when your
command is executed and we also have
some new informational accessors that I
alluded to previously the get level of
metering on and off and also a set level
metering on and off so let's look at how
you use these in your code the first
thing we're going to talk about is
recording a sampled sound and these
slides are not not in full detail we do
have some excellent sound examples as
part of the SDK so if you really want to
take a look at this in detail versus
this high level discussion please go see
that and we will show you where to
download that at the end of our
presentation so the first thing you need
to do to record a sample sound is
prepare the sound Channel and the way
you do that is you create a new sound
input device by calling new SPV device
and passing in whatever permissions are
appropriate for that type of device for
example most microphones you can't write
to so you'd want to just do read with
that also you need to allocate a new
sound channel and pass the number of
channels the rate the sample size and
the compression type of the sound that
you'll be using and you can also just
retrieve that from the sound input
device if you want so you can get the
defaults for that so it's actually
pretty easy once you've created the
sound Channel you create a new sound
input
parameter block which you need to pass
in that you need to create the new SP be
passing the device that you'll be using
and then the buffer size which is the
size of that you're going to use tip for
the data and also the sound handle you
need to pass in where that's going to be
stored in the sound handle then you can
optionally specify a completion proc
that will get called upon completion of
the recording and you call that by
overriding and the the si completion
class and then overriding the execute
method so once you've done all that and
you want to record the sound simply
called record from your SP B object and
then the sound will start recording so
that's recording let's look at playback
to playback the sound asynchronously
which is the more interesting case you
need to prepare a sound command in this
case we're demonstrating how to use it
with the buffer command which will do
asynchronous callback versus the play
command which doesn't so you create a
new sound command object specifying the
command that you wish D is and then in
the case of a buffer command you also
need to set the buffer that you'll be
playing from and give that to command so
you do that by calling step buffer and
then finally called do command on the
sound Channel and that will place that
buffer command at the end of the queue
in the sound Channel
if you wish to schedule a callback you
need to create a sound command excuse me
a callback command and put that into the
channel as well but before you do so
when you allocate the sound channel you
specify the sound callback to be used at
that time so a good example of reasons
why you'd want to do this is if you need
a sound in the background that's going
to loop over and over again so you could
create a sound callback that would
detect would be placed on the end of the
queue after a sound had been playing
when the play command popped off the
queue your callback command would get
fired and that could put a new sound
play or a sound buffer command into the
queue and also put another callback
command onto the queue and so that would
continually loop so that's pretty much
all there is for playing a sound when
you're using sounds there
couple things that you need to be aware
of and cognizant of and the first is
that you need to make sure that you
dispose of all your sound channels when
you're done playing them you can do that
by calling dispose cutey object on the
sound Channel and if you like you can do
that directly from a call back it's it's
very important to do that as opposed to
waiting for the garbage collector clean
to clean you up because that can be a
lot of native data additionally if you
have any completion routines that you've
specified and registered with the SPB
device go ahead and remove those as well
by calling remove completion proc and
finally there are a couple of garbage
collection issues you need to keep in
mind if you have sound objects on the
stack they can go out of scope so be
aware of your use of local variables
some manager doesn't get happy
it isn't happy if buffers for the first
sound that's supposed to be playing get
get garbage collected on you also make
sure that you dispose of any objects
that you use within a callback before
you dispose of the callback itself and
keeping in mind those guidelines will
make sure that your experience using
audio is a sound one I know that was bad
couldn't help it okay so now we're gonna
look at a new area of quicktime for java
5 which is the presentation API and a
bit of an overview first for those of
you that haven't seen any of the
previous QuickTime sessions there was a
presentation section and that that
showed the new API available with
QuickTime for Java a QuickTime 5 that we
implemented in QuickTime for Java as
well this enables you to broadcast from
any source that is sequence grabber
compatible audio devices such as two
turntables and a microphone or any DV
audio source also video devices as well
and you can specify that that broadcast
is unicast or multicast going to a
single machine or to a number of
machines on the same network and the
broadcast is also used or configurable
via a settings dialog which we'll see in
the demo to follow so let's look at how
this works from a client side the
broadcaster is a machine that has some
sort of device such as a camera can
did and it also specifies it has a you
an SDP file which stands for stinky dead
pigeon no actually it doesn't
it's the stream data protocol and that's
a standard in a standard for specifying
how streaming will be sent across the
network and so we use that standard as
part of QuickTime since we are a
standard space technology so once you
specify the SDP file to configure your
broadcast then those packets are going
to go out onto the network and onto any
machines which are also viewing the same
SDP file and in this case the
illustration shows that those machines
are just using the Qt player to open the
FTP file and that doesn't have to be a
player it can be any application that is
capable of opening a movie so let's look
at the broadcaster in more detail now on
that broadcast machine we have a video
camera which is the source of the
broadcast that goes through the sequence
grabber into the sorcerer object we also
have a presentation that encapsulates
all these various units within the
broadcaster and the presentation you can
think of is kind of like the top level
component or a movie that contains all
these other objects within it that's
configured by the SDP file which
specifies whether there's audio whether
there's video what the whether its
unicast or multicast what the sample
rate is what the form compression type
of that broadcast is going to be once
that is specified that's going to affect
the packet Iser which is responsible
from taking the data from the source or
object and splitting up into little
packets that it can then send out on the
network in an efficient manner so that
packet Iser is going to be affected
greatly by the compression type that's
being used by the sorcerer component for
example there are packetize errs that
are specific to Sorenson that know a lot
more about its format and can more
efficiently send out those packets and
finally we have the streamer which is
report which is required for actually
sending the packets out on the wire so
that's how the presentation works
and how do we map this in a quick time
for Java we have a presentation API
that's been placed in the QuickTime
streaming package and we represent that
presentation or streaming session by a
presentation object we the streaming
session is configurable again via
settings dialog which we'll show you in
our demo coming up and we have a
streamlined API available now and we'll
be releasing additional features of the
API in the future to allow you to do
things other than just using the
sequence grabber oops
skip the slide so let's go over to the
demo and we have a video camera here
it's going to be digitizing all you
happy people in the audience so what I'm
going to do first is I'm running a
QuickTime for Java applet and I'm
selecting an FTP file which as I
mentioned previously it's simply just a
text file and at that point then the the
settings dialog is going to come up let
me move that onto the monitor so you can
see it and in the on the top side you
see the settings for the audio and
including the component that that's
coming from which is actually in this
case coming from the sequence grabber
I'm going to go ahead and edit the sound
settings here too since I don't really
care about audio I'm going to cut that
down a little bit and then so that's the
component responsible for compression
and then on the right side you see the
packet Iser that's going to use to send
that out and I'm just gonna use the
QuickTime packet Iser you'll note that
it also is recognized that I'm sending
an 8-bit sound so there's a special
packet Iser for that
however since my fdpp file specified
that the packet Iser would be quicktime
i need to make sure that I use the same
packet Iser otherwise the client will be
looking for a different packet Iser and
then what's being broadcast and it won't
pick that up and you can see that I'm
using a DV video source and I'm going to
go ahead and turn down the quality at a
little bit that's fine and let's
increase the keyframe frequency slightly
so
actually see some data and then I'm
going to go ahead and hit okay and we'll
look at the broadcast so once I click
the start button you can see now that
this is what we're digging from the
camera and on the other machine we're
going to go ahead now and open the same
SDP file up in the QuickTime Player so
you can see what's actually being
broadcasted across the network and this
is a multicast presentation and as such
if more than one machine could go ahead
and and receive that broadcast and as
you can see we have a little lens flare
going on there's somebody in the back
waving fiendishly feverishly maybe
fiendishly as well so there we go we're
doing a live broadcast from a TV camera
plugged in through a firewire report
from a quicktime for java app being all
on ten and being received on a you
receiving that to John no use just
waving okay anyway so that game people
get so crazy when their video cameras on
them alright so I'm going to go ahead
and stop that now and go back to slides
a live presentation on a Java machine
can't do that without QuickTime and
that's the beauty of QuickTime for Java
it gives you a very elegant simplified
interface that lets you to do some very
powerful features that would take tons
and tons and tons of code we're looking
at the code now natively this would take
thousands of lines of code but in
QuickTime for Java and in the example
sent out on the SDK you'll see that
there's really only a couple of lines of
code since we've taken care of a lot of
the details for you you can specify
advanced modes but you're not required
to so let's look at the presentation API
to create a presentation you can call
presentation from file and specify an
SDP file you can also specify an XML
file if you like and then your
presentation parameters which is an
object that lets you specify the sound
rate etc and data rate then if you like
you need to show your settings dialog by
calling the settings dialog and pass in
your presentation object as the note
says and as I previously mentioned I
have to reiterate that you're the users
responsible the broadcaster for choosing
a setting that makes sense based on what
the SDP file is specifying for the type
of broadcast since the client that's
using that SDP file is only gonna look
for a specific format a packet Iser and
if you choose a different one well the
clients gonna say that's not the
broadcast I'm looking for so it won't
find it so make sure you do that
correctly to prepare and start a
presentation you simply pre-roll your
presentation and then call start on it
there's also a callback that you can
receive a QuickTime for Java does
support that will allow you to determine
if the pre-roll has actually occurred
and that can be important if you have a
slow device that you're grabbing from
that just isn't ready yet
once it's ready you call start and to
stop you call stop this as easy as it
can get so oh but there's a little bit
more sorry for God you do have to
actually set up an idler you can create
a new
a thread that's gonna be responsible for
calling presentation idle and that's the
mechanism that will go ahead and keep
the sequence grabber running and go
ahead and actually do all the
compression and packetization and we
recommend that you do that in a test
thread and you can specify on the task
thread both a string name which will
allow you to easily recognize it in a
debugger and also a rate of which that
thread is going to get serviced in this
case we chose 20 milliseconds because
that seems to be a good value and then
when you override your task method you
just call idle and that's really all you
need to do to do a live broadcast from
any source supported by the sequence
grabber in QuickTime for Java again we
encourage you to look at the SDK code
later if you're interested and now I'm
going to turn the presentation over to
John summers again who's going to talk
about transition enhancements thank you
Michael
transitions quick time for Java 5 now
supports enhanced transitions to go back
transitions are QuickTime effects cool
time effects architecture has a large
number of effects that you can apply to
still images that is a single source and
that this is a represented as a
QuickTime filter a QT filter in QT for
Java or can be applied between multiple
sources a QuickTime transition the main
enhancement has been to the parameter
dialog in QT Java for we supported
editing create sorry creation of a
QuickTime parameter quick time quick
time out of container which contains the
data for a quick time effect and in
QuickTime for Java 5 we've extended the
parameter dialog so that now you can
re-edit the parameters this is an
important consideration for some of our
developers and as well we have allowed
you to customize the dialog by putting
in optional preview pictures and another
new feature of QuickTime for Java 5 is
an enhancement to the atom container
class specifically the insert child call
we've extended the number of data types
to cover all the data types found in
quick time so we have all the simple
data types of byte short int and float
and as well object data types which
we'll cover most of the all of the other
data types that you'll need to actually
create quick time out of containers for
tween type atoms where the data is
actually an array of two elements that
is a start and end sample we have a new
class between data which extends QT by
objects so can be used directly with the
insert child call for atom container and
how we've constructed how we've
implemented this is to overload the
constructor so we take we take a start
and end value and the types are short
int fixed float double point fixed point
etc which are all the types that you
will need to create quick time between
type atoms one of the things that we've
done for a quick time done for Java in
QuickTime for Java 5 is to change the
implementation the semantics of some of
the atom container calls you notice in
the insert child we have a parent atom
in some of the QuickTime out of
container methods we have actually
changed the semantics so can actually
pass in null so that actually this will
be recognized as being a synonym for
atom 0 that is the container is the
parent atom parent atom is the container
and new QuickTime 5 features in
QuickTime for Java 5 are support for the
XML parser in QuickTime 5 we've
implemented this with data classes which
represent the parser the past document
and elements and attributes and and XML
content from the from the parsed XML
stream you can get to these
you can get to these elements by part
bike by creating callbacks which will be
called during the passing of XML so you
can find out when the document parsing
starts when you reach a particular
element which will allow you to use the
quick times XML parser for a pretty good
XML parsing now I'd like to hand stage
back to mark Hopkins for more new
features we still have plenty of time
okay additional new features in
QuickTime 5 there's a brand new one
that's pretty significant called drawing
notification registration and what that
allows you to do is register for
notification when drawing and update
operations occur on objects such as a
compositor an effects presenter or a
movie presenter and this actually allows
you to do some pretty interesting things
for example if you aren't really big on
using time bases although that's and
also an excellent API you could
synchronize a framerate to the drawing
by by registering as a listener for a
component also if you need to do some
some drawing yourself onto an off screen
before you present that you could go
ahead and get notification when drawing
was completed and then do your
additional drawing before that gets
rendered to the screen so the way this
works is the listener implements the
drawing listener interface and they
override the drawing complete method and
they can put in any code in there that
they wish you'll also notice that they
receive the QT drawable object that
generated the message within that call
so you have access to determine it's
time or what media it's presenting for
example once you've overrated that
interface you register your listener
with a component by calling by creating
a new listener and then adding that
drawer listener to the object that you
wish to register with and not shown on
the slide but additionally important
once you're done you can remove yourself
by calling remove
during listener so that's a powerful new
feature that we've added but we're not
done yet
we've added an is sizing option in QT
canvas a very strange named one called K
initial size no resize and for those of
you harass QT Java programmers you may
think well there's already a K initial
size a sizing option
well that one allowed an object
contained within a canvas within a
window to grow smaller but not increase
in size whereas this new sizing option
absolutely specifies that that canvas
will not grow or shrink regardless of
what happens to its parent window
additionally we have a new interface
called standard QT constants v and oddly
enough this represents newly defined
constants in the QT 5 API and this
supplements previous constants such as
the standard QT constants 4 which
represents QT for API and standard QT
constants which is QT 3 and previous so
anything that's in 5 is specifically
going to be in that new standard
constants 5 interface so hopefully at
this point nobody is confused we've
added a lot of new functionality in our
product we have a brand new operating
system that we're supporting in a very
very high fashion and that's Mac OS 10
we've added new support for compositing
a new support for for broadcasting new
support for time base we work through a
lot of new features that are part of the
5 API and as such you as a developer may
have a lot of questions about this but
there are good places to get answers the
first of which is the public mailing
list it's available for Qt Java
developers you can go to list a palom
and sign up for the Qt Java list and
that's an excellent place for you to go
out and get information or ask some
questions if you're having difficulty
when we highly encourage that because
that's a very good community for a quick
time for Java developers also I
mentioned previously the Qt Java SDK we
have five new examples and that s
clay and that includes all of the things
that we've covered today so you can get
examples for that in that SDK so it's a
developer.apple.com slash QuickTime
slash Katy Java finally if you want to
be part of our seed program I assume
everybody's a registered developer here
so if you want to get in on that and get
access to pre releases of our software
please send a mail to cutie job at
apple.com and we'll get you on that and
we really appreciate your feedback and
find out what things are important to
you and see how we're doing so
additionally I would be shot dead if I
didn't plug bills book there's an
excellent book called call them
QuickTime for Java programming well I'm
sure all of you are aware of that it's
an excellent book that has a great
overview of some of the concepts that
QuickTime for Java were built on as well
as a reference in the back so again we
recommend that so this build the
publisher the publisher Morgan and
Kaufman and you can find that on
amazon.com even I believe ok so I know
it's Thursday and a lot of you feel like
WWDC is almost over but there's still a
number of excellent sessions coming up
we have the quick time feedback forum
immediately after this over in j1 it's a
good place to come bring your
constructive criticism about things in
QuickTime you'd like to see additionally
immediately after the session john burke
'is going to give a killer java graphics
demo and that's really important because
there's quick time for java developers
you will be interacting with things like
swing in the Java API 2d API so those
are some good things to do if you want
to learn about some of those other ways
of rendering in Java additionally we
have some excellent audio services class
in in j2 here at j2 at 5:00 where you
can learn about the audio services on
Mac OS 10 and there is as I mentioned a
Java API for that as well so you can
call that with Java and that's a great
way if you're a 10 only developer to
make use of some really advanced
functionality additionally for those of
you they're deploying applets please see
Java security tomorrow at 9:00
and then of course the Java feedback
forum tomorrow at 10:30
you